Alzheimer's disease is the most common influencer of dementia, as 62% of dementia cases are explained by the onset of Alzheimer's. Data suggests that current diagnostic effectiveness in the UK is less than ideal for this disease, and are  in a position to be improved. In 2018, Alzheimer's Research UK indicated that the diagnosis of dementia was only 67% effective (Source), suggesting that a third of patients did not receive a correct diagnosis. In individual healthcare systems in the UK, the range on this diagnosis varies anywhere from 54% to 80% (Source), as privacy policies and a lack of communication between systems can limit a practitioner's ability to fully evaluate a patient.

Machine learning has the ability to help hospitals better detect and diagnose Alzheimer’s disease so that people’s health conditions aren’t ignored and overlooked. Over the past two weeks, our dedicated team has worked to create algorithms that detect Alzheimer’s better than the medical system in the UK. With our models we can improve treatment for patients and help hospitals give their patients a better quality of life.

Our predictive models have demonstrated improved diagnostics compared to baseline predictions, with accuracy and recall scores that are higher than baseline scores to varying degrees. We have outperformed the standard rate of detection and are continuously working to make them better.

Our most basic neural net (for binary classification) is 35 points above baseline accuracy (50%), and in terms of recall scores is 20 points above UK averages (64%). However, the recall scoring as it related to false negatives (128 false negatives in our model results) was significantly higher than what would be comfortable for a model that has been deployed within hospitals but we will work to improve that over time. In terms of classifying the severity of symptoms, we chose the basic tuned model over pre-trained models, and scored a uniform score of 72% on accuracy, precision, and recall. This metric is also below what we would be comfortable with for a model that is deployed in UK hospitals, but is also higher than baseline predictions and is a place where we will work to improve. 

Our models are vastly better than the current standard in the UK. They may not be perfect, but with additional improvement and feature development before deployment, we will improve the detection rate of dementia in UK hospitals and help determine the severity of a patient's dementia.
